an explosion in Beirut has killed s
aruri a top official of the Palestinian
militant group Hamas which is considered
a terror organization by the US the EU
and many other countries Lebanon state
run news agency said the blast killed
four people in a Southern suburb of
Beirut and was carried out by an Israeli
drone the suburb is considered a
stronghold of lebanon's Hezbollah
militant group Israeli officials
declined to comment but prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu had threatened to
kill eror even before the October 7th
Hamas Terror
attacks let's get more on this from our
correspondent abas alash in Beirut abas
what more can you tell us about this
strike right
now you could as you say it's six person
six people were killed in an drawn
strike today what two hours ago uh it
was targeting um Al
is in beirut's southern uh suburbs it's
called Alia in Beirut and we could hear
the the explosion was quite strong um
the officials say that um there are
three three three person couldn't
identifyed were killed and we are
waiting of the the the next development
um Al is it's very busy area it's it's
not far from here from DV office about 5
km far from here and it's very busy area
in this time it was it's evening and
everybody was on the road and we maybe
there are some civilians uh being
injured during this attack figure was
sori in the ranks of
Hamas he is one of the top leaders in
Hamas he is one of the founder of alasam
group the military
Wing in Hamas and and he is um he became
a member of poit buau since
20110 and he uh returned back to Beirut
in
2017 he was outside Beirut and because
there was some misunderstanding between
hisbah and Hamas because the war in
Syria so he is one of the most important
uh top leaders in
Hamas uh poit buau and targeting him it
means a lot to Hamas and for hisbah
exactly especially because there's being
targeted this person being targeted by
um in
an strike draw strike in Al south of
Beirut so it means a lot to know how
have Lebanese authorities reacted to
this strike in the
capital there are different kind of
reactions um there are some politicians
condemns condemn the the attack and this
and the prime minister of leanan he say
Mr mikati condemned Israel's killing
ofori he said uh the attack aims to draw
libanan further into the Israel Hamas
War uh uh into new phase of the uh
confrontation M with with Israel and um
now we heard that leanon to submit
complain to un Security Council against
the strike so there are some um some
reactions here but the people here
around in B are very worried and the
situation became really complicated and
very critical now we have to be clear
here that Israel has not yet claimed or
has not claimed responsibility for this
strike uh you mentioned there the um
prime minister talking about being drawn
into a conflict among the population how
big are fears of a wider conflict
conflict uh the the fierce is quite big
in fact because we were talking here in
Lebanon the people talking here lean
about they call it like the Rules of
Engagement between Israel and hisbah now
there is a new Dynamic for this conflict
we are talking about targeting alah the
South suffers of Beirut so now we are we
are we have a new rules maybe nobody
knows um especially that the people are
waiting tomorrow speech of H the leader
of ofah and we don't know how will
situation will be continued and will be
will be um developed nobody knows the
people are waiting the speech of Hass
and usually when he is speaking about
something about Israel and the conflict
with Israel uh the people are in leanon
very worry and they are waiting his
speech carefully because um uh hisbah is
one is well trained Fighters they have
about 100,000 Fighters well trained
fighters in leanan and they are um they
are always on the south of leanon we
were talk about before about the
targeting on the border Israel targeting
Village or some uh fighters of hisbah on
the border leane border and hisbah
targeting and uh strikes another another
um uh another on the other side of
Israel now we are talking about
targeting and strike inside Beirut and
this means a lot that abas alali thank
you for
that thank
you and moving on to Sami s who's
following the story for us from Tel Aviv
Sami what has the reaction in Israel
been to the bayroot
strike well first of all prime minister
Benjamin Nan has ordered the Ministers
of his cabinet not to give any
statements about this uh strike
nevertheless Danny donon who is a member
of the leud party and he's also member
of the foreign and the security
committee inside the keset it's a
committee that is exposed to a top
secrets and so forth he commented on
Twitter by
congratulating the IDF the mosad the she
bet for the assassination
ofi and what he's saying and others is
that salahi not not only is the number
two of the Hamas movement but he's also
the one who was engaged in the attack
that was launched in October the 7th of
October attack and what commentators
here are saying that this strike that
was launched by Israel is a very
successful one as it was a a maybe the
most
successful attack that Israel launched
since the beginning of its war against
Hamas and that this is a great
achievement for the Israeli intelligence
that has failed on the 7th of October
and now it has come back to its uh
reputation of being a force that can
Target and kill an individual in a
crowded City in an exact way yeah still
we need to be precise Israel has not
claimed responsibility for the killing
of s aruri how big are fears in Israel
that events like these could escalate
the conflict with Hamas to a regional
War yeah well indeed the uh cabinet was
going to have a meeting tonight here in
Tel Aviv
a to discuss Gaza and so forth will this
meeting has been cancelled because of
the latest
development and there is concern that
hisbah will launch missiles towards
Israel on the other hand there is also a
an assessment that maybe the movement
will decide not to strike at Israel uh
because Israel strike a Hamas a
Palestinian Target rather than a
Lebanese Target and that hisbah will be
paying a very heavy price if it will
launch long range missiles towards
Israel but I can tell you the ones that
are most worried are the families of the
hostages there's a report that Hamas has
announced that the talks are finished
because of this assassination
and the many family members of hostages
that are kept in Gaza are fearful that
this will postpone any kind of
development in the release of their
loved ones there is another report that
Anthony blinkin Secretary of State the
United States that was supposed to come
here postponed his trip we don't have a
confirmation of that but nevertheless
Israel is bracing for an escalation
that was journalist Sami so in Tel Aviv
thanks for that
update and for a closer look we can now
speak to hansjakob Shindler he's the
senior director at the counterterrorism
project that's an NGO and international
policy group he joins us from New York
City good to see you can you tell us
more about Hamas Deputy leader s
aruri thank you so much for having me
yes I mean as uh some of your previous
speakers have said he's a really senior
figure in the movement he was there
right from from the beginning he
radicalized already in ' 85 and he was
studying in Hebron and then joined Hamas
right from the outset when the
organization was founded in 1988
co-founding the AL Kazam brigades from
that time of course is also a personal
relationship between him and Yahya sinra
the current leader of Hamas in Gaza and
The Mastermind behind the October 7
attacks he was then multiple years in
Israeli jails released in 2010 allegedly
as part of theil chalit deal although
Hamas denied this and then left Israel
for Syria got thrown out of Syria
because of the Civil War in 2012 went to
Turkey got thrown out of turkey in 2015
went to Qatar got thrown out of Qatar in
2017 and is or has been in Beirut as the
quazi Hamas ambassador to hisbah and one
of the key leas on individuals of Hamas
to the Islamic Republic of Iran there's
also videos of him being being in a
meeting with Iranian supreme leader Ali
so really a key very experienced
organizer and leader of the Hamas
movement could his killing weaken
Hamas to a certain extent it does
obviously Hamas is a collective
leadership so there's more than one
individual that leads the organization
but uh there is a limited amount of
operatives especially Terror operatives
um with this amount of experience that
amount of international relations and
that amount of insights into Hamas
finances outside the Gaza Strip then
arui so in a way of course it will
weaken amas but of course it's nothing
like a silver bullet that would now
really hamper the uh organization's
ability in in Gaza to you know fight
Israel Salia rui was living in Lebanon
how strong is hamas's presence in the
country um hamas's presence in the
country really is um a function of its
relationship with hisa in Iran that's
where the connections happening
allegedly he was killed in a meeting
between isbah the palestin Islamic Jihad
and uh Hamas in Beirut uh a couple of
hours ago so in a way it is more of a
representation rather than an
operational area for
Hamas now Israel has not claimed
responsibility is there anyone else that
you are aware of who would be interested
in moving Al out of the
picture I mean clearly Israel is of
course the country and the government
most likely to have done this U as in
the past unless they're absolutely
forced to they're not going to admit to
extra judicial killings outside of the
Palestinian territories but I don't see
anyone uh that has the same likelihood
than Israel to have uh conducted that
attack and now with with this having
happened reactions are are coming in do
you think that fears of a widening of
this conflict in the region are
Justified well of course in this tense
situation anything is of course a bit of
a risk uh I I see that some Israeli
politicians are already doing some
damage control marre the senior advisor
to netan said very clearly he doesn't
know who did it but whoever did it this
was not an attack against uh the state
of Lebanon um there has been a slow but
very steady heating up of the hisas
attacks to Israel every day every week
there are more Rockets going into uh
Northern Israel so it is of course a
tense situation but as uh prime minister
Netanyahu said in November Israel is
going to hunt down all of the
significant Hamas leaders wherever they
are and so it seems very much this is
the first time they actually made good
on that promise the senior director of
counter extremism of the counter
extremism project Hans yakob shinda
thank you for your
assessment thank you so much for having
me